Good morning. Welcome to the program. A
glance at markets across assets right
now. And you know what? It didn't last
very long. The sell off and I can tell
you that because you look at US futures
steadying. uh VIX futures in the US are
also coming signaling an ever so
reversal of yesterday's uh price action.
Uh what is quite noteworthy though is
still when you look at the Nikay VIX
index there as you can see up a point
we're down 610 of 1% on the global on
the regional benchmark which shouldn't
come as any surprise given of course the
downdraft we did see in global equities.
We'll see how China opens up of course
and we'll get a sense of futures. Change
the page please in about a minute or
two. Gold and silver very much in focus
still given just the uncertainty out
there and almost in every scenario.
Looks to be bullish for gold. That's
according to a lot of gold bolts out
there. Dollar is steady if not slightly
weaker right now. Dollar yen as you can
see is not really doing anything. And
certainly the expression of what's
taking place in Japan has really been
largely divorced from FX markets. It's
really shown up more uh in the bond
markets. coming up on your screens. 10
and 30 US, 30 and 40 in Japan, and we
are stronger uh just about across the
board. We're stronger by about 10 basis
points in the Japanese 40-year yield. Uh
the Golden Dragon Index overnight uh PDD
of course was in focus 7 days in a row
of declines, 2% to the downside. Other
stocks to watch on your screens, one and
a half% to the downside on the benchmark
overnight, which takes us well into the
futures today. and the 50-day moving
average after 4 days of losses is very
much uh the line in the sand to watch.
Uh we had cut through the 100 day and
we're looking at maybe a bounce. We'll
see if that happens today. In terms of
bond markets in China, there's an
auction today. Uh we're looking at 20 32
bonds in that amount. Yields on your
screens 1.83%.
>> Yeah, you got to wonder how you
mentioned the steadiness that we're
seeing in JGB markets here right now.
You got to wonder how long that's going
to last here given the fact that yes,
you heard from the finance minister in
Davos really telling, you know,
investors, calm down.
>> We'll figure this out. But then again,
there's still a lot of questions about
the policy moving ahead. How are they
going to plug that gap from cutting food
sales tax and whether the BOJ is going
to have to step into this bond market
here eventually, too?
>> Yeah. I mean, there's so many factors at
play. It's hard to sort of disentangle
what is what, right? Is it the piping of
the market? Is it the economic
fundamentals? You do have, of course,
core inflation
>> uh somewhat there in Japan. And you do
have of course the prospect of more rate
hikes. Uh Scott Besson interesting
enough of course I believe he spoke he
said he spoke with Katyama
>> last week.
>> Yeah. To talk about well they got to say
something to calm the markets and of
course you know our our piece actually
highlights the fact that you know Scott
Besset was actually a hedge fund comes
from the hedge fund world and he called
this a it was a six sigma move uh in the
JGB market. So it's nothing. It's very
unusual to see that. It's showed up of
course in Treasury markets which have to
some extent uh come down ever so
slightly today. But yes, I mean it's
still a a story we need to unpack and
whether or not there is something beyond
the price moves we need to consider out
of Japan.
>> And will it be more than just verbal
intervention at this point, but we
certainly heard that voice of calm from
the Japan finance minister yesterday,
Suzuki Kazayyama, who defended the
government's fiscal policies as
responsible and sustainable.
I don't have any concerns about the
absorption of JGBs going forward because
we have a wellthoughtout plan for JGB
issuances. I believe the Ministry of
Finance of Japan is perhaps the best
Ministry of Finance in the world in
terms of our close communication and
careful communications with the market
participants.
>> Investors obviously disagree with uh the
perception that you hold right now. They
say that JGBs are not the ones to buy at
this point in time. There are huge
concerns about your finances. How do you
respond to that when they say that
perhaps Japan's bond market is a
canary in a coal mine?
>> I think those concerns are misplaced. We
put a lot of importance on
sustainability of our public finance. If
you look at the draft budget for all
this year, for the first time in 28
years, we will be achieving a primary
balance surplus. If you look at our
economic policies through our economic
policies, the plan is to expand the size
of the Japanese economy. We have already
seen an increase of tax revenue by 84
trillion yen and we are to spend without
additional borrowings. And as if you
could look at our dependency on JGBs,
the public debt dependency is at a
30-year low.
As the Minister of Finance, I am not
going to ignore the concerns in the
market. The Prime Minister has been
talking for the past couple days about
an election to ask for the confidence of
the public. She has talked about a
possible plan for reducing the
consumption tax rate. I know that is one
of the reasons why the market has become
rather nervous. But she has said that
Japan is not going to depend on issuance
of deficit covering bonds. Since October
of last year, we have taken a very
responsible approach to public finance
talking about responsible, sustainable
and proactive fiscal policies. We are
not taking expansionary fiscal policies
and this is demonstrated by some of the
numbers that we see. So I ask the market
participants to calm down.
H the timing of that conversation there,
Satsuki Katayyama, the finance minister
of Japan speaking with her colleague has
Linda of course at Davos. Joining us now
from Tokyo to talk us through the
implications and really how this is
viewed on the ground in Japan. Yesper
Cole, expert director at Monx Group.
Yesper, good morning from Hong Kong.
Thank you for joining us on relatively
short notice. Um well, what what's your
prognosis? Is the is the bond market
front running the BOJ slightly too much
or is something else at work here?
No, look what's at work here is that
Japan has forgotten what is normal. And
you know, the reality is that yes, the
Japanese economy is normal. Um, you
after basically 20, 30 years of zero
interest rates, you now have um, you
know, an economy that is recovering,
steady wage gains, nominal GDP growth of
four to 5%. And the reality is that the
normal neutral rate in Japan is not
0.75%.
If you look at something like the Taylor
rule, you find that um you know the
growth potential of Japan is about 1%.
Inflation target is about 2%. So the
neutral policy rate should be between 2
and a half and 3%. And the Japanese bond
market is pricing exactly for this
normalization. This is not a crisis.
This is going back to business as usual.
>> Business as usual. But they're still
talking about, you know, something like
cutting food sales tax, right? I mean,
that's they're saying that that could
cost the government of up to what, $32
billion. How do you think the
government's going to have to plug this
gap?
>> No.
>> No, Ivon. And and you're absolutely
right. I mean, there's obviously an
election. Uh obviously Prime Minister
Takahi is going to have to buy some
votes um you know because the Japanese
people are angry about the loss of their
purchasing power because yes the bank of
Japan the policy makers in general are
behind the curve. Uh again the Japanese
economy is much much more normal and
fixed income markets are beginning to
price for exactly that. Um it's very
interesting that you see um you know the
winners from the normalization of
Japanese interest rates are actually the
Japanese people because for the first
time in one generation deposit rates are
starting to increase. So that asset
income is actually starting to go up. So
there's losers in the bond markets. Of
course there are. But there is winners
and that winner is Mr. and Mrs. Watanab.
>> Yesper. the while while the direction of
travel is certainly to the upside and
it's it's a good thing when you when you
point it out that way it's a good thing
that Japan now has an interest rate
right
>> the although you are getting aberrations
like the one yesterday which was you
nothing but normal when you look at the
size of a 25 basis point move on say the
Japanese 30 or 40year and I wonder short
term do you think we need to be
considering the possibility of some sort
of intervention whether that's some
supply tweaks from the Ministry of
Finance or some temporary purchases from
the BOJ just to calm the markets down.
Yesper.
>> No, I don't think so. I think that, you
know, if you've got intervention, you
know, as a speculator, all that that
does it's it's going to fuel my uh, you
know, ambitions because if the public
sector, if the Bank of Japan for example
supplies the artificial artificial
intelligence, it's just going to be a
one-off. Again, the value in JGB um for
a 10-year bond, it's not 2%. The value
comes in closer to 3, three and a half,
maybe even 4%. And that's where the
pricing has to happen. No, no amount of
short-term intervention is going to
prevent you from getting uh uh from
stopping that path that goes towards 3
and a half to 4% yields.
>> Okay. Three and a half 4%. Do you think
that's going to be the threshold then
for for Japanese investors to really
kind of repatriate
>> some of their holdings offshore? I mean,
how does what does this mean for the the
global bond markets, right? Are we
likely to see, you know, trouble for
treasuries and the rest of global
sovereigns moving forward?
>> I it's very interesting. That's
obviously a common narrative um you
know, that is out there. Um and you
know, you're absolutely right, Ivonne.
The key question is when is the GPIF,
the world's largest pension fund, the
Japanese public pension fund, when are
they going to increase their allocation
uh into JGBs? Is it at 3% on the 10-year
bond? Is it at 3 and a half% on the
10-year bond? That's going to be the big
signal because you need the Japanese
buying their own debt market, which
right now they are not because they know
that the Japanese economy is normal.
Wages are growing 4 and a.5%.
Nominal GDP is growing four to 5%. As a
result of that, a 10-year bond should
not be yielding less than the nominal
growth in the national economy.
>> Yes. You know, one of the big buyers, I
would even call it big buy, one of the
big buyers, the biggest buyer of the JGB
market was the BOJ and they have of
course stepped back right as they
normalize policy. The reason I bring the
BOJ up because there's a rate decision
that just happens to be scheduled for
for for late this week. Is there any
specific guidance you think the markets
should be paying attention to out of the
press briefing on Friday?
>> I think that the key question is, you
know, the inflation expectation by the
policy board needs to be adjusted
upwards. Um, you talked earlier about
fiscal policy. Now, with the election,
very likely we're going to get a cut to
zero in the consumption tax for food.
Now, what that actually does, it frees
up purchasing power for other uh
consumer items, whether they're
services, whether they're goods. So, as
a result of that, it's actually not
going to bring down inflation outside of
food. Quite the opposite, demand for
food items is going to be going up. So
the bottom line is yes, the Bank of
Japan needs to get its act together,
needs to guide expectation that yes,
three or four or five rate hikes over
the next year and a half are indeed the
responsible thing to do to normalize the
economy. The Bank of Japan is behind the
curve.
>> Yes. My final question, since you
mentioned elections, that that's also
coming up in let's call it three weeks.
Uh which way do you think that bet's
going to go?
>> It's very interesting. I think uh that
Taki is going to win a landslide victory
possibly even going so far as a super
majority. Um and the reason is not
economic policy. The reason is that
she's just got incredible charisma. She
is uh the a self-made um you know woman
who against all the odd you know made it
to the very top. And there is young
generation Japanese in particular, but
also old Japanese generation who
absolutely admire the fact that she's
broken through the glass ceiling that
she's not an aparachi, that she's not an
entitled person, but she's a self-made
winner and that's what in my personal
opinion is going to generate a landslide
victory for the LDP.
>> Okay. Has that been priced in you think
in in markets whether it's dollar yen
you know there's talk of
>> you know if we hit back to 160 that you
know we might see some intervention I
mean where where to next when it comes
to direction of travel for yen
>> look my view is that you know dollar yen
is headed towards 175 180 and the reason
is that not just here in Japan but more
importantly in the United States of
America and you know you have got a US
economy that is very very strong where
um you know the Federal Reserve is
unlikely to cut interest rates and as a
result of that I think that the dollar
is the way to go for the next six to
nine months.
>> Yes B, we got to leave it there but
thank you so much. Yes, the expert
director at Monx Group joining us from
Tokyo. Uh we are still waiting that
you're going to be fixed. Let me just
I'm looking too.
>> Um this is going to be a big one, right?
>> All right. So they're holding the line
still at seven. In fact, it is actually
uh weaker than yesterday's fix here.
714.
Uh we were thinking maybe we would to
see something that's sub 7. Not today
once again. But there you go. You do see
a bit of a reversal in dollar China here
this morning on the the weaker fix here
today. We're coming down to the open of
trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Hong
Kong. This is the China show.
Without collective governance,
cooperation gives way to relentless
competition. Competition from the United
States of America through trade
agreements that undermine our export
interests demand maximum concession
concessions and openly aim to weaken and
subordinate Europe combined with an
endless accumulation of new tariffs that
are fundamentally unacceptable. Even
more so when they are used so as
leverage against territorial
sovereignty.
I doubt it. Look, they want to they need
that agreement very badly with us. They
really do. They They fought very hard to
get it. So, I doubt that, but we'll see
what happens. We have a lot of meetings
scheduled on Greenland.
President Trump there says that he is
confident the EU will stick to their
trade deal even as he imposes of course
new tariffs in his quest to take control
of Greenland as France of course uh in
the sunglasses at that too. Uh blasting
his
>> We could do that. We could do that now.
He set he set the president, but I know
it's very cool.
>> The We could talk about it later. We're
running out of time. Okay, let's bring
in let's bring in our team to talk us
through the highlights of Java so far as
we make our win another day there. Of
course, Jill Dus is with us here, our
news desk managing editor. Okay, what
what stood out to you apart from the the
the sunnies?
>> I mean, I think at this point, David, um
it's just really extraordinary to watch
um how unsettling this entire week has
um you know, really kicked off here. I
mean, you've got uh Donald Trump
continuing and maybe it's not really a
surprise after all, but continuing to
offend um you know, decades of um you
know, international policy here,
obviously has really kind of um you
know, created this this incredible um
environment of concern among um you
know, the US's European allies here over
Greenland in particular. I think what's
really interesting to watch is um you
know sort of the difference between
Trump who's obviously I mean this is
very classic Trump just kind of going in
all bluster um trying to make um demands
>> and I have to mention this they've taken
over this 19th century church in Davos
with this big banner as we're showing
right now house of God. I think it's
just kind of very symbolic of I guess
the power play that they're trying to
really kind of bring to
>> Davos. Exactly. I mean, look, Trump like
honestly has like tons of reasons to be
emboldened, right? Like a lot of his um
you know, tariff policies last year like
kind of worked. He got um you know,
almost every you know, US ally to kind
of come to the table and negotiate over
you know, creating these like you know,
fairly you know, substantially higher
tariffs than existed prior to last year.
Uh you know, he had um you know, this
this at this point seemingly successful
operation in Venezuela to remove
Nicholas Maduro from power. and he's
also um you know staring down a Europe
at this point that has a lot of
vulnerabilities over Ukraine um you know
some other issues it's not entirely
clear that all the European leaders
ultimately agree with each other can
come to some kind of a consensus on how
exactly they retaliate against Trump
that's you know really the question here
is um if he goes ahead with these
February one tariffs trying to push
everybody to the table over Greenland
negotiations um you know there's a
possibility that Europe could come in um
you know uh on February 7th with some
retaliatory efforts but Trump appears to
be calling their bluff Okay. The speech
later on today, um I mean it's supposed
to be a speech about affordability, but
I'm guessing this whole Green Line issue
is going to kind of sneak in.
>> Do you think he's going to strike a tone
that's going to ease the tensions right
now or actually escalate further?
>> I I mean, at this point, it's, you know,
obviously I I I I don't want to get into
the business of predicting anything
Donald Trump is going to do because you
never really know exactly how things are
going to go down. I would say though
that obviously Trump very famously likes
to go off script, so it's kind of
whatever he's feeling in the moment. But
again, I do think that it's important to
point to the fact that like he does seem
to be emboldened over this, it's also
really interesting to watch um kind of
how a lot of his key advisers sort of
try to balance things here. So, while
you've got um you know sort of this this
potential threat of military
intervention rising up to the point
where the prime minister of Greenland is
like warning people to um you know that
that that's could be even as highly
unlikely as it is something to to worry
about here. You've got people like Scott
Bessent saying basically everybody take
a breath. You've got the trade
representative Jameson Greer trying to
seemingly imply that maybe there's some
economic negotiations at play and that
um whatever ends up happening with
Greenland is ultimately going to be some
kind of a cautious measured sort of you
know longer term um negotiation but um
you know obviously when it comes to
Trump he's got his own style his own
flare of doing things and I don't really
think he's got a whole lot of reason to
suspect that that may go wrong.
>> Yeah there's a lot of talk about whether
European investors are going to dump you
know their you know US treasuries and
the like. I think Besson had a lot to
say about that saying you know basically
that's that's that's nonsense.
>> Yeah. Uh except if you ask the the
Danish uh pension fund specifically, of
course, which is a separate conversation
there.
>> That's they might actually exit US
treasuries.
>> Yeah, from a credit from a credit uh
risk perspective is is what they're uh
fanning there for now. Of course, uh
Jill, thank you. Jill D is there of
course on the latest of uh Davos and of
course separate there on script very
predictable is the Chinese side
portraying itself as the advocate of
free trade and multilateralism. Holy
phone device has been making that
specific case in Davos.
>> Multilateralism is the right way to keep
the international order stable and
promote humanity's development and
progress. The rules must apply equally
to everyone. A handful of countries
should not enjoy privileges based on
their strengths. And the world must not
return to the law of the jungle where
the strong bully the weak. Every country
is entitled to defend its legitimate
rights and interests.
>> Yep. We'll have more of course on the
Chinese side of things. Uh they are the
world's factory. They also want to be
the world's market. Uh futures are going
into the open today. Weakness across the
pre-market pricing 310 to 1% on the Hen
index. Plenty more ahead. This is the
China show.
your agenda here today. We're watching
of course this retreat when it comes to
you know risk assets just given the
Greenland situation of course Japan's
fiscal sort of concerns there as well
which rattled the bond market that did
kind of play into the equity market in
some way as well but futures are flat at
least this morning we're watching of
course the MSCI China around that 50-day
moving average is is the key sort of
threshold we're watching out for rem
strength as well we've seen actually
when it comes to the offshore be at the
strongest we've seen since 2023 uh the
CGB sales happening we talked about
Hillifunga Davos and of course precious
metals still very precious.
>> Yeah, gold is more the play today than
silver and I think when you look at
price action and zujin mining is I guess
one of the proxies there up 1% uh in the
early going as well. Uh apart from that
uh nothing much as far as macro data is
concerned in the Asia Pacific. We do
have a rate decision though which is out
of Indonesia. No change expected there.
All eyes still in the JGB market on
Japan. We're steadying in JGB sideways
on dollar yen. Uh we are extending
though as a entire cohort here Asian
equities extending the weakness coming
through up towards global stocks. The
open is next
Good morning. Welcome back. The you want
the good news or the bad news? Let's
start with the
let's start with the good news. So the
fast acting emodium um has acted quite
quickly when you look at the JGB market
following the day we had on Tuesday. Uh
we're slightly stronger on JGBs. Equity
markets though have yet to feel the the
effects of the medicine. uh that's down
to be perhaps other things as well, but
uh the fix as well coming in weaker than
expected. We were expecting maybe the
possibility of a sub seven fix. We
didn't get that yet, did we?
>> Yeah. Given the dollar moves I've se
we've seen of late, given this Greenland
issue, um there's just plenty of
headwinds, I guess, in the next few
hours and stuff. When you talk about uh
the Greenland and President Trump set to
speak in Davos, uh we have some sense of
calm coming through the JGB market. But
yesterday I I think we're still looking
your wounds but given the brutal selloff
and one of the most you know volatile
ones we've seen of late right so at
least in the JJB's discussion uh
Katayyama at least today seems to have
stemmed this route but then again
equities are still in a bit of a you
know choppy sort of environment take a
look how onshore is looking like here
right now we're kicking things off
slight to the downside of Shanghai
Composite we're just lower by about a
quarter of 1% uh interesting to note
though we're watching when it comes to
the bond market in China seems to be
still very insulated from the global
bond jitters that we've seen globally
really. But the 10-year yield is still
one basis point lower here. Uh watching
commodities like copper, we're still
coming off some of the initial highs
that we've seen uh for Dr. Copper there.
We're down about 1%. Uh steel is also
slightly lower. Uh interesting enough,
we talk about consumption, right? So we
talked about, you know, these these
plans uh for loans, you know, perks to
boost investment and consumption. HSBC
is interesting about being positive on
Chinese consumption and really expects
uh growth in buy so we'll watch Maai and
the like here um they believe you know
the wealth effect from stocks and stuff
that's going to get you to start maybe
being a little bit better about buying
spending by Joe they says are seeing
some signs of improvement uh let's the
boards and see how Hong Kong is doing
here right now obviously the tech space
is very much in in in in you know on
offer here we're or down about half of
1% uh it looks like most of it is really
been seeing the likes of Ali Baba, but
we're marginally lower. But we talked
about the whole PD PDD story overnight
where we have seen consecutive losses
for that company. So
>> seven days over
>> the regulatory concerns uh you know you
have trip.com as well that is coming
adding to maybe potentially some
concerns but really uh the tech space
has been something of of risk of late.
Um but then again we are seeing here
when it comes to dollar China uh still
holding around that strong level at 695
or so. We did see a weaker fix from the
PBOC here today. Um but yeah, not much
really catching our eye relatively
speaking. I think China looking a little
bit better than the rest of the region
here today. But precious metals
obviously still
>> that clean expression of of risk and how
to hedge it. Look at where gold is
continues to be. We're at 4,800. We had
UBP's Peter Canel on yesterday saying I
wouldn't even think about buying silver
at this point. But gold, he says there
is still room to go. They thinking maybe
even 5,000 for gold. So there you go.
You're seeing the likes of Shaun Gold up
some 4% here right now. Silver spot
prices are coming off just a bit here.
We talked about the consumer space.
We'll see if there's any kind of
reaction given some of these loan perks
that were mentioned in that briefing
yesterday from the finance ministry as
well. A little bit of upside when it
comes to some of these consumer names.
Dave,
>> interesting note coming out of HSBC
there at Ivon's pointing out. We'll talk
more about the the loan perks in a
moment. Yeah, really a good proxy for
animal spirits. There we go. As as a uh
Steven Angel, of course, you might have
heard him just now. Our chief North Asia
correspondent is beside us here on set
to talk us through. Well, there are two
things we want to ask you. the the
stance that China has put forward at
Davos which is fairly consistent,
predictable, you know, the anchor of the
world. Yeah. And of course what they
announced separately yesterday as far as
economic support.
>> Yeah. I guess we can kind of put them in
lock step as well because Khalifung,
which we'll talk about in just a minute,
also talked about the opportunities of
boosting uh the consumption economy in
China and that then uh in lock step with
opening up policies and attracting
foreign businesses. they can participate
in uh this consumption boom that they
are trying to stimulate because the top
leadership in China stated the number
one goal for the economic goal for 2026
is boosting domestic demand, boosting
domestic consumption. How are you going
to do that? How are you going to get
more people buying the BI Joe with at
the same time when you're having uh
anti-corruption ongoing crackdown?
Because it's a it's the the liquor of
banquetss and and the like and making
business happen, right? But that's a
separate story. Uh what we're hearing
today is, you know, more evidence that
there might be some more fiscal
firepower thrown towards boosting
domestic consumption because the big
question was how are you going to get
households to spend more? How are you
going to get small to mediumsiz
enterprises investing more uh at a time
of persistent deflation and price wars
across many different sectors. So the
Ministry of Finance announcing a slew of
incentives to boost uh borrowing
bymemes. the the thinking is they're
going to borrow at lower rates for two
years. They can invest in better
equipment, more fiscal upgrades. Uh they
can then hopefully get more productivity
and profitability and that somehow will
eventually have a virtuous cycle to lead
to uh more consumption. So again, that's
$72 billion US 500 billion yuan loan
guarantee facility that will last a
couple of years. Again, finance ministry
says public spending will be uh
increased this year as the government
implemented a more active fiscal policy.
>> Yeah. And Hong really talking about the
export side of things and you know the
China can still remain that reliable
partner in in trade. How did that
resonate in Davos you think?
>> Well, I think it was a pretty much an
expected type of narrative. He didn't
bring out any new messaging that they
haven't over the last few years. They've
always talked about uh drawing this
sharp contrast to the threats by Donald
Trump essentially by portraying
themselves as a proponent of
multilateralism, free trade, and that
they are gradually opening up uh the
economy, greater access to foreign
companies, and they're trying to allay
fears again uh of this deluge of Chinese
products that could swamp some economies
around the world.$1.2 two trillion US
dollar trade surplus last year. So he
has to downplay that and also say look
come participate in our domestic rebound
that's going to come. Uh what also might
come is more trade talks between China
and the United States according to US
trade representative Jameson Greer. He's
saying all right we've already done the
hard work on export controls uh and on
sensitive tech and also on national
security. Scott Bessant even said the
Chinese are so far fulfilling their
pledges on soybean purchases and rare
earth magnets. Uh but what Jameson Greer
would like to see in this next round of
talks if they have them before Trump
goes to China in April which is still
scheduled maybe some talks on
lowerhanging fruit the goods and
services to give Trump some sort of
deliverable to give Xiinping some sort
of deliverable in that summit in China I
was assume in Beijing because if they're
just going to hammer on about rare
earths and national security issues and
chips they might not get a lot of those
deliverables.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And those are the things we
know of already, right? So, something to
look forward to.
>> They've come to sort of a mutual
understanding on that. It's a one-year
truce that ends next December. Maybe
they'll have those talks to renew that
later.
>> Oh, I almost forgot about the truth
ending in 12 months from November. We're
almost there. About 3 months, actually,
from November.
>> There are new fronts to be opened.
>> Okay. Well, hence hence our jobs exist
for a reason, right? Uh Steve, thank you
so much. Stephen Angel, our chief North
Asia correspondent. We're about 6
minutes into cash market session. CSI
300 a 10th of 1% 250 uh billion rem as
far as the turnover is uh is concerned.
Uh Elizabeth Quick is here with us on
sets Asian equities investment director
at Aberdine Investments. Good morning
and very nice to see you.
>> Tech has so far led the way still in in
China. Do you still feel strongly uh
that that will continue to outperform? I
think when you look at China, tech um
and specifically tech that's driven by
AI continues to see very strong growth
and innovation. Um it is a national
priority. There's a lot of policy
support behind that. The government
wants to transform traditional
industries using AI. Um so I think there
are a lot of ways to play that um
including you know uh AI applications,
platform companies but also the local
semiconductor industry which is going
through an extremely rapid pace of
localization. So um in terms of growth,
I would say that tech is still one of
the areas that will lead um lead things
uh in the year ahead, especially when
you compare them to other traditional
sectors which are still going through a
relatively tough time. Uh which is why
you know you know recently we've been
seeing a step up in measures to try and
boost domestic consumption. That's
right.
>> Um to support uh you know the economy in
general because I think the um impact
from a slower property market um is not
that easy to replace overnight. um the
wealth effect. So uh relatively
speaking, yeah, I think we are still
quite positive on the tech sector.
>> How should I look at as you mentioned
the domestic side of things, the
consumption space right now for this
year?
>> Uh I think it's still looking um quite
challenging if you look at recent macro
data, retail data, CPI, um it still
paints a you know a mixed outlook. There
are pockets of growth for instance in
the luxury space, the premium space,
things are holding up quite well. Um and
then if you look at certain segments
relatively niche but you know something
like uh pet food um there's been a
structural rise in pet ownership in
China. So those companies they're
actually still reporting very good
earnings um and in fact revising up
their earnings um outlook. So um yeah I
think probably have to be selective if
you're looking at consumption.
>> Yeah. I didn't realize we were going to
jump off pet food to talk about
earnings. You mentioned earnings being
upgraded. What's what's the overall take
on what's your outlook on earnings this
year because people are looking at that
after the we rerated on PE last year?
We're we're in fact we're slightly
higher than historical average right now
and we need earnings to get that
multiple higher. Yeah, I think um for
you know the comingings earnings season
if you look at if you look back at the
macro data that's just been released for
the last quarter uh I think uh
expectations are still relatively
managed um in terms that we don't see
things uh you know reaching a inflection
point necessarily if you're talking
about the economy as a whole um having
said that uh there are still pockets of
growth so I mentioned tech but also in
certain parts of industrials the
renewable side of things advanced
manufacturing ing some pockets of
healthcare. I think those companies are
seeing strong growth especially those
that are led by innovation. Um we can
expect maybe uh stronger earnings on
that front.
>> So it seems like is it the same playbook
as 2025 then that what worked last year
seems to be working again
>> or is it you know but people have been
talking it's time for rotation. How do
you view that?
>> I think it depends on um how quickly the
government uh can step up their support.
um you know we've seen a slew of
policies already announced but the
actual impact has yet to be seen. Um
perhaps we'll see it more trickle
through um towards the second half of
the year. Um if uh you know if they're
able to do enough on the fiscal side um
to build up consumer confidence um to
get people to spend all the money that
they have saved up in their bank
accounts um which is uh you know still
at historical highs uh then perhaps
we'll see a bit more of a rotation and
broadening out of things.
One of the things that's emerged
recently from our conversations with
other analysts is you know the the
themes are changing so quickly.
>> Yeah.
>> In China and not just very quickly the
names leading those themes are somewhat
unfamiliar to many many people. Are you
guys encountering the sort of problem
like because you talk about advanced
manufacturing robotics AI and
>> homegrown homeown things that are even
hard to pronounce.
>> Yeah. Hard to pronounce and where did
the name come from? Right. We even
struggled like oh
>> who's that? Yeah.
>> And I wonder whether that's a conundrum
also from from in your in your neck of
the woods.
>> It's not so much a conundrum, but it um
definitely keeps us on our toes, always
looking for um you know a sustainable
winner that may have um you know risen
overnight or or in a very short time.
But I think because of the way how
dynamic things are um we are on the
lookout for these opportunities and we
actually see these things as um
attractive investment opportunities for
investors um that you know names that
may not be 10 cent Alibaba well known
yeah not household names not known by
everyone but that's where you can
generate alpha um so yeah we see that as
a positive actually um if you can
identify some long-term winners
>> um we we have seen I guess
a lot of this market. I mean, given what
we're seeing, US seems to be escalating
tensions with Europe and what we saw at
the beginning of the year geopolitically
that you know, Asia seems to be that
sort of safe haven play here where
you're not getting that sort of the same
sort of volatility. Do you think do you
think that there is Yeah. Do you think
that investors are kind of leaning more
towards this part of the world just
given what we're seeing
>> over in the Western Hemisphere right
now?
>> I think um the geopolitical environment
globally has been um unstable you can
say over the last few years. I think
China was at the forefront of that for
the past few years and maybe things have
um relatively stabilized now compared to
what's going on um in Europe um and
between the Europe US. Um but uh I think
on the whole the market is maybe it's
not so much that it's gone away but
maybe the market is getting more used to
this type of noise. I think the kind of
tit fortat back and forth geopolitical
tariff war that we were seeing in the
past um I I don't know that that's gone
away forever. Um but you know if it were
to come back I think the market's more
able to digest that kind of news that
noise and to look through um you know
not not not be so um bothered by
short-term noise.
>> Uh what's the what's the key risk to
watch here that's not too obvious and
along those lines? Is it one that is
external or is it one that's more
domestic in China as it pertains to the
outlook for the market?
>> I think domestically um that will still
be a risk. you know, whether China is
able to to uh get domestic consumption,
domestic growth going again. Yeah. Um it
is still a huge part of the economy. So,
you know, it's it's great that um export
numbers are looking good um and uh and
and things like that, but when it comes
to domestic consumption, I think that's
still a major driver of overall um
economics. So, yeah, hopefully hopefully
that will come through.
>> Elizabeth, thank you. Elizabeth Quick
there, investment director of Asian
Equities at Aberdine Investments. Uh
we're checking when it comes to FX here
today. Obviously when it comes to some
of the moves that we see in the dollar
once again uh overnight we continue to
see extension of that weakness here
during the Asia session. You are seeing
some strength coming through when it
comes to the Korean Juan Japanese yen as
well. We are sub 158 levels too as well
given some of the calming words that we
heard from the finance minister at
Davos. But yeah 695 for dollar China
here this morning. This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. Uh we'll take we're we're
headed straight back to to Soul where as
you can see uh a live briefing new new
year news conference is taking place.
That's the president of course the South
Korean president outlining the direction
of government policy his take on
economics and currently what we're
looking at is a I think this is the
question and answer portion with
journalists and one of the things that
has emerged uh so far from the briefing
are comments coming through on the on
the currency and you know in fact the
currency is in fact the the well let me
pun intended the one is the big winner
so far uh in the in in the session today
um as the president says he expects the
currency to rally
to,400 and it's comparing of course the
weakness that we've seen there compared
to the Japanese currency.
>> Well, yeah, relatively speaking, I
guess. Um,
>> yes. Point to the weakest one in the
room. Yes.
>> And say I'm stronger.
>> Uh, also saying US chip tariff move may
accelerate US inflation. That's
according to the president as well, but
they're not too worried when it comes to
these tariff talks. So certainly that
could be one thing to watch here as
well. Meanwhile, we've been talking to
of course Hong Kong's financial
secretary in Davos. He says the city
will need to issue bonds to finance a
new tech development known as a northern
metropolis even as the budget returns to
surplus. Speaking to us there, Paul Chan
also said he's optimistic about renewed
IPO momentum in the city stock market.
>> Well, people are looking
safe havens uh to park their funds and
at the same time giving them good
returns. They're looking for policy
consistency and predictability and in
that sense Hong Kong offers excellent
alternative for them.
>> Of course, you're looking for fiscal
surplus in 2026. Quite ambitious some
say,
>> but you remain confident. Why is that?
>> Well, 25 26 meaning year end 31st March.
Operating account definitely a surplus.
But you know our account composed of
operating account and capital accounts
land revenue still needs time to go back
to previous level but we do need to
expedite the investment in northern
metropolis. So overall speaking, we
still need to issue some bonds to
finance the investments in northern
metropolis. But going forward, I'm
pretty confident because on the
operating account, we will still uh
registering services with our physical
consolidation policies. In the past two
years, we control expenditure growth and
grow a little bit of our revenue source.
And for the northern metropolis, we are
also experimenting different options.
Say for example uh inviting uh investors
uh or technology companies they come we
give just give them a parcel of land of
huge size they can do the infrastructure
they can bring the ecosystem over in
that sense expedite the development
process and on the other hand cut down
the government's commitment in terms of
infrastructure provision
>> you talk about plans for the northern
metropolis because that is a priority
for China as Well, I'm just wondering
>> is there reason to spend big on the
northern metropolis when your financial
conditions are still stretch at the
stage?
>> We see the we see this as investment. So
we invest upf fun to grow the ecosystem.
When the companies come they bring their
ecosystem over in future years they will
pay me tax. So we invest often and get
the return in later years. In the
meantime, the cash flow differences, we
use bonds to finance a bit of it.
>> And that was Paul Chan, the Hong Kong
financial secretary with Haz there at
Davos, right? If you're one of our
Bloomberg clients and you can rewatch
that specific interview, you can go to
TVGO interactive TV function on the
Bloomberg terminal, become part of the
conversations.
Yeah. And and more. Check it out. TV go.
This is Bloomberg.
Right. Uh just a check of markets right
now. Precious metals what seems well
what has been consistent is this
well almost uh non-wavering focus on the
space itself. What does change though is
within this this there seems to be a
different one every day. Uh it still is
gold today. Silver's not so much in
focus. Platinum though has again given
us something to talk about with a that
that's a record effectively 2511 is the
number to watch and as you can see we're
effectively there as far as platinum is
concerned. That takes us into separately
the by story on a day where most in
terms of market breath were negative uh
across the benchmark constituents. This
is really one of the standouts and not
just marginally up substantially up
about 2%.
>> You got to wonder why you're seeing that
upgrade from Morgan Stanley. Well, when
it comes to their AI assistant, uh it's
a milestone here according to some
reports from Dow Jones that they've
surpassed 200 million monthly active
users for the Ernie assistant. So, could
be a potential milestone or catalyst
there for the stock here today. We're
watching the property stocks in Hong
Kong in particular. Interesting call
made from JP Morgan. They're saying uh
watch the earning season this time
around should mark the bottom for most
Hong Kong development developers with
profits poised for a turnaround. That's
according to Carl Chen and his team. Uh
but they also upgraded new world
development to neutral from underweight.
So they're saying some of the biggest
investor fears have already materialized
according to them.
>> Yeah. Well, the thing is we we heard it
before. U not to say that they're wrong
and hopefully they're correct there as
well. But yeah, yes, it's something to
certainly pay attention to as we uh make
our way into more Fed cuts, right, which
really goes into uh the prospects here
in in Hong Kong benchmarks. There's
really not a lot to talk about in the
benchmark basis today. Apart from the
fact that, you know, so far the working
projection is about 100 on MSI China is
the target for this year. So far, it's
it we're sideways to flat on the
benchmark itself. Can I ask my
producers, can you guys bring up 8460
please? I want to talk about JGBs. Why
not? We have time anyway. Um, and the
8460, thank you. Widowmaker trade, no
longer a widowmaker, right? It's it's
the one that was consistently
uh a lossmaking operation for traders.
Has now been a rain maker. In fact,
because of all the losses we've seen in
the last few years here, it's really
been consistent.
>> It it has been. And I think, you know,
obviously we heard from Katyama, which
as you say, was the perfect timing to
really kind of calm this market down.
But then again, how how long lasting can
this rebound be just purely on verbal
intervention? When you talk about one of
the brutish selloffs we've seen since
liberation day, do we need the finance
ministry? Do we need the Bank of Japan
to step in eventually here long time
until February 8th that snap election
>> that is a long time many things could
happen. I mean many things had happened
in the last two hours or so. We'll have
plenty more ahead on the Japanese story
and others. This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back to the China show. A sunny
skies in Shanghai. I believe it was
snowing this week uh as well. So, we are
dealing with some colder temperatures
here. Also here in Hong Kong this
morning as well. We're flat when it
comes to MCI China, but you're seeing a
little bit more upside when it comes to
onshore markets here today. CSI 300 is
up about 4/10en of 1%.
>> Yeah, this cold snap here in the city
and the warning coming through out of
weather officials, of course, until
tomorrow, I believe.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, um yeah, that's why my knees
are are slightly
slightly aching today.
>> Making some cracking. So, yeah. Noises.
Yeah, Ivonne knows all about the
stretching I need to do to uh to to make
myself available.
>> Um that that's also to say uh everyone
maybe who did run the the marathon on
the weekend. So if you're still aching
and hurting, it's normal.
>> Um what's concerning me though is this
>> um sneezeathon that's happening.
Speaking of marathons, uh a lot of
people are have have some form of bug.
>> It comes with the cold weather.
>> It does. It does. So just uh vitamin C,
zinc and avoid people. Avoid people as
much as you can. Uh speaking of u so far
we've managed to keep above the seven
handle on the fixing out of the PBOC. So
far we're extremely close. We have been
extremely close in recent days and so
far we've held above that. Of course
this is the fixing. This attracts the
fixing of course. And if you go all the
way back to May of 2023, uh that should
take you to the very the last time we
were actually had a sub seven fix. takes
us to the currency markets where because
of that the the Chinese currency did see
a a little bout of weakness coming
through. Hence, we are weaker there as
you can see stronger on the Japanese
currency. The dollar and the South
Korean one not on your screen is
actually the standout across FX today on
the back of pronouncements coming out of
Korea and the president are talking
about uh expectations around a rally to
1,400
on the current Europe's very much in
focus. You have Davos literally in
Europe of course you have everything
conversations are in Greenland and that
is still as you can see pressure coming
through in the equity markets futures
pointing down a quarter of uh 1%. What
is sta what has stabilized is the JGB
market with yields pushing lower last we
checked 10 basis points and some uh we
have paired those gains a little bit but
still as you can see a down arrow story
uh on the yield space following
yesterday's wipe out uh equity markets
and VIX futures Asian VIX benchmarks of
all here in the city slightly mixed but
it's a good thing that we are seeing the
pair back a little bit on VIX futures
following the the worst session on Wall
street uh since I believe April of last
year.
>> Yeah, I think global markets are finally
waking up in some ways after what has
been a very buoyant, I guess, start to
2026. Now you're starting to see some of
these fiscal concerns really kind of
emerged and I think Japan kind of
sparked it at first. You add that to
some of the angsts around Greenland and
President Trump said to speak uh in
Davos. Whether he tries to ease tensions
with the EU when it comes to Greenland
or actually escalate it further while
he's in their territory, that certainly
is going to be a key focus for the
market as well. Well, we haven't even
talked about BOJ,
>> right? And what what they can or cannot
or will or are forced to do when it
comes to stabilizing this bond market.
But at least for now, seems like the
words from Katana and Davos.
>> Katyama.
>> Katyama. Yes.
>> This is at least helping today.
>> Please calm calm down.
>> Calm down.
>> Calm down for now. In fact, let's let's
hear exactly from the Japanese fine
finance minister has Linda spoke to her,
of course, at Davos recently.
I don't have any concerns about the
absorption of JGBs going forward because
we have a wellthoughtout plan for JGB
issuances. I believe the Ministry of
Finance of Japan is perhaps the best
Ministry of Finance in the world in
terms of our close communication and
careful communications with the market
participants.
>> Investors obviously disagree with uh the
perception that you hold right now. They
say that JGBs are not the ones to buy at
this point in time. There are huge
concerns about your finances. How do you
respond to that when they say that
perhaps Japan's bond market is a
canary in a coal mine?
>> I think those concerns are misplaced. We
put a lot of importance on
sustainability of our public finance. If
you look at the draft budget for all
this year, for the first time in 28
years, we will be achieving a primary
balance surplus.
If you look at our economic policies
through our economic policies, the plan
is to expand the size of the Japanese
economy. We have already seen an
increase of tax revenue by 84 trillion
yen. And we are to spend without
additional borrowings. And as if you
could look at our dependency on JGBs,
the public debt dependency is at a
30-year low.
As the Minister of Finance, I am not
going to ignore the concerns in the
market. The Prime Minister has been
talking for the past couple days about
an election to ask for the confidence of
the public. She has talked about a
possible plan for reducing the
consumption tax rate. I know that is one
of the reasons why the market has become
rather nervous. But she has said that
Japan is not going to depend on issuance
of deficit covering bonds. Since October
of last year, we have taken a very
responsible approach to public finance.
Talking about responsible, sustainable
and proactive fiscal policies. We are
not taking expansionary fiscal policies
and this is demonstrated by some of the
numbers that we see. So I ask the market
participants to calm down.
What concrete steps will you take to
fund all the spending plans? There have
already been massive significant
stimulus and now the prime minister has
said she's um cutting the consumption
tax which amounts to 8% that leaves a
huge hole I suppose in in revenue.
The prime minister is talking about
reducing the consumption tax rate only
for food items. Even with that there
will be quite an amount which will be
required but we have already reduced
gasoline tax and we have secured the
financial resources every time we have
decided on spending. We have explained
it to the IMF as well. Just last week, I
was in Washington DC to attend the G7
and like-minded countries meeting and we
had a bilateral meeting with managing
director Madame Georgiva of the IMF and
she knows that every time Japan takes an
action, we have paid careful attention
to fiscal sustainability and we have
been mindful of ensuring fiscal
sustainability. We know that public debt
dependency has been coming down and she
gives credit to that and she fully
appreciates that.
This year, the fiscal deficit to the GDP
of Japan will be the lowest among G7
countries, which is not widely known.
And it is within this framework that the
prime minister is talking about
eliminating wasteful tax exemptions.
>> The market's obviously still not
confident about Japan's finances. We're
seeing 30-year JGB yields higher than
the boons of the same tenure. Might you
want to stabilize the bond market
somewhat? Might you ask the BOJ to
increase its scheduled bond purchases
Wednesday morning just to bring that
stability to the market?
>> Of course, we will work to restore the
market confidence and we have already
been in communications with
institutional investors. We have already
been in communications with the BOJ. I
wouldn't be attending this Davos meeting
if there were something that we could
officially announce. So, you're willing
to take concrete steps to bring
stability to the Japanese bond market?
>> I've been in the position of Ministry of
Finance for four months now, and it
might not be as much as you imagine, but
I have taken concrete measures to bring
stability to the market. What I can say
is that we have done so and I will
continue to do so.
>> Don't worry.
>> How are you assessing the risk of
contagion? We have seen treasuries
getting impacted. We've seen the
Australian bond market getting impacted.
Might we see what's been deemed as the
bond market meltdown in Japan impacting
the rest of the world?
>> The recent JGB auction went very
successfully and we have a
wellthoughtout future option of the JGBs
and we are confident the future upcoming
auctions will be successful as well. I
don't think it's right for me to talk
about the potential impact.
>> And that was the Japanese finance
minister Suzuki Katayyama speaking with
Haz at Davos. Of course, uh keep in mind
if you're also have dual screens and
you're watching us also there's a live
Q&A going on on Japan featuring our very
own Sherion and several of our
colleagues as well. Coming up, we're
going to speak with one of the authors
of a new report that games out the
potential economic fallout from a
hypothetical conflict between China and
Taiwan. Zack Cooper joins us in the next
side of this segment. This is Bloomberg.
Multilateralism is the right way to keep
the international order stable and
promote humanity's development and
progress. The rules must apply equally
to everyone. A handful of countries
should not enjoy privileges based on
their strengths and the world must not
return to the law of the jungle where
the strong bully the weak. Every country
is entitled to defend its legitimate
rights and interests.
Helong there, China's vice premier and
Beijing's top trade negotiator, speaking
at the World Economic Forum in Davos and
he presented China as an advocate of
cooperation, free trade, and
multilateralism, reiterating many of
Beijing's frequent talking points. Of
course, while Hillyong insists that
China backs this real rules-based global
order, obviously there a lot of
questions about Taiwan emerge, right?
And whether Taiwanese independence
remains a clear red line. Beijing has
been ratcheting up pressure, staging its
most expansive military drills in
decades near the island last month,
including a live fire exercises and even
no-fly warnings. And Chinese President
Xiinping has told the People's
Liberation Army it should work to become
what he calls a worldclass military.
2027 marks the centenery of the PLA. And
and some US defense planners have linked
that date to a potential attack on
Taiwan. But Chinese officials dismiss
that notion of any timeline for any
invasion. Now, Washington has long
maintained a policy of strategic
ambiguity when it comes to Taiwan, but
the US has helped arm the island,
including an 11 billion weapon sale
announced in December. Beijing maintains
it has a right to take the island by
force if necessary to prevent its formal
independence.
>> People talk about the status quo in
Taiwan Strait. I would argue there is no
status quo that is static. Yeah. With
each provocation and with each response
from the PLA, the status quo would be
changed reversibly. Yeah. Toward the
favor of the Chinese mainland.
>> If China attacks Taiwan is the title of
the December
report and study out of the German
Marshall Fund that's gamed out two
scenarios of how that conflict might
develop. Joining us now to talk us
through this is the co-author of the
report, Zack Cooper, senior fellow at
the American Enterprise Institute. Also
with us here to join the conversation is
Steven Angel, our chief North Asia
correspondent. Uh Zach, good morning
from the Asia Pacific. Thank you. Thank
you for joining us. Well, let me just
get maybe started with the maybe the
obvious and the simple. Uh what was the
rationale behind the study? What was the
what is the objective here just to that
you guys want to shed light on?
>> Well, thanks David. I I think the key
question for us was we spend so much
time looking at scenarios in which the
United States loses a conflict over
Taiwan. And as an American, we test out
those scenarios to understand where our
weak points are. But sometimes it
implies that actually in any conflict,
the US would struggle and that China
would be wildly successful. I think most
of us believe the opposite. And so this
was an effort to look at what the cost
to China would be in four different
areas. We looked at economic costs. We
looked at domestic political costs,
military costs and then uh diplomatic or
reputational costs. And the surprise to
me was that I I think in all four areas
the costs are quite high. I wouldn't
assert that they will be enough to deter
Xinping if he feels that he has to take
action, but I think the costs are
probably higher than most people would
otherwise assume.
Can you walk us through some of the
costs whether it's economically
um militarily and even social stability?
I know you have four pillars there of
what some of the scenarios that you've
laid out.
>> Yeah. You know, I think some of the most
obvious costs are the economic ones and
Bloomberg has done a great job uh
demonstrating how costly this is. uh you
know some of the data that's come out
has suggested it could be close to let's
say 10 to 15%
of uh GDP uh so that that's obviously a
significant figure as a conflict goes on
but what we try to do is break this down
into two different kinds of
contingencies one which was a relatively
minor skirmish and then a second which
was a much larger war and uh I I think
what you see is that over the course of
these two conflicts
they look very different. So a minor
skirmish the costs are relatively small
and they're sort of shortterm whereas a
major war these are massive costs. They
take a very long time to deal with and
uh you know they could last for many
years. And so if you look at the
economic costs it's not just in terms of
trade at the point in which there's a
conflict. It's also what happens to
trade and supply chains long after that.
Uh just one other item I would highlight
is I think some of the work here on the
domestic stability threats is really uh
new and important and one of the
takeaways for me was that the challenges
that Xiinping might face in a failed
conflict could be huge uh not just for
the people's liberation army but also
for the other Chinese domestic security
services that would be responsible for
upholding order in the aftermath of a
failed conflict.
Zack, Steve Angel here. I I see the
result or the report essentially goes in
to the the results of these different
scenarios and the outcomes. How much
goes into the rationale for doing so?
Because I also see that again the German
Marshall Fund uh is a nonpartisan
organization that essentially advances
transatlantic partnership. I want to
kind of bring that to the four with
today's headlines with what's happening
between the United States and Europe.
Does when we're talking about the
rationale, does the calculus of
essentially a deterioration of
crossatlantic alliance between US and
Europe embolden Beijing to carry out one
of these scenarios? or does it
essentially undermine what they've been
talking about at Davos and that is they
are the the the responsible world power
right now.
>> Yeah. You know, I think a lot of people
would have sort of chuckled at the
comments that you aired from Holly Fun.
Uh but now I think they you know those
are going to appeal to a lot of
countries who are watching what the
United States is doing with Greenland
and has done with Venezuela. Uh I think
at the end of the day this really does
undermine security in East Asia and one
of the reasons is that so many of the
costs to China depend on international
responses and yes the US might be the
biggest player there. Japan is certainly
critical, as are South Korea, Australia,
and others, but Europe has a really
important role to play. And one thing
that the Biden team had been pretty good
at was getting a lot of European allies
and partners on board with at least
contemplating strong responses to a
Chinese use of force against Taiwan. I
think it's going to be a pretty hard
cell these days for the United States to
be asking Europe to take on, let's say,
the anti-coercion mechanism that they've
developed and use it against China. In
fact, they're talking about using it
against the United States over
Greenland. And so, I think this
absolutely undermines deterrence. It
doesn't mean that I would expect
Xiinping to take action against Taiwan
anytime soon, but I think it it is uh
damaging the crossstrait stability that
we all hope will be able to be
maintained over the next few years.
>> Zach, just looking at the the the major
war scenario that you guys are playing
out, I just want to ask what what what
the what the assumption is of the study
in terms of the extent of US military
involvement.
So in the major war scenario, we assumed
a pretty great extent of US involvement.
And the reason is uh if you're a Chinese
military planner, one of your incentives
is to go big and go early. And what I
mean by that is uh you can either leave
US forces alone across the region or you
can strike them very hard very early. If
you don't strike them early, you put at
risk Chinese forces that would be very
vulnerable to US attacks, especially
large amphibious vessels that would need
to cross the straight. Remember, we're
probably talking 3 to 400,000
Chinese troops that would have to land
on Taiwan and they're not swimming
there. They've got to get there on
boats. Uh those are extremely vulnerable
platforms. And so we assumed in the
major war scenario that the Chinese
would probably try and strike US assets
whether that could be a US aircraft
carrier right at the outset or
facilities in Okinawa, Guam and
elsewhere. Uh and from my standpoint
that means the US has to fight. I know,
you know, every American president has
their own predilictions on this issue,
but I think if you saw a 5,000 person US
carrier disabled uh somewhere in the
Pacific, I think Americans would
probably force the president to fight.
So, that was our assumption. And I'll
say, you know, of course, these
scenarios would look really different if
the US wasn't so engaged. Uh, and so the
minor skirmish we looked at had a much
lower level of engagement where we
really had just Taiwan and China
fighting it out. And you see very
different costs to China in that
scenario.
>> But Zach, you also in both of these
scenarios conclude that the PLA would
not be victorious. Correct. And if
you're sending missiles to US bases in
Japan and to Guam, uh that would almost
surely bring the United States into a
full-on war, which would sort of
undermine the main uh objective there of
Beijing, and that is unification with
Taiwan.
>> Yes, Stephen. And I think that's right.
And you know, one of our going in
assumptions for this project was to look
at what happened in a failed Chinese
effort. So, we weren't trying to examine
the possibility that China might
succeed, but I'll say as as somebody
that used to do war planning at the
Pentagon, my assumption is still that
China would be very successful in the
first few days of a conflict and then
they would bog down particularly in an
amphibious conflict uh where they'd have
to transit such a difficult body of
water with so many troops and keep them
supplied. This is an incredibly
difficult operation and you're talking
about a military that hasn't done
anything of this sort, a major conflict
since 1979 and they lost that conflict.
So this is really hard for even the best
militaries. And so my assumption and our
assumption in this report is that the
Chinese side would have a huge amount of
trouble trying to carry out those types
of operations. But even if they were
moderately successful, many of these
costs still apply, right? the economic
cost, the cost of the military, they
they would still be quite serious.
>> And Zach, I I have to bring it back to
kind of the news of late, right? It took
days for the US, for example, to to take
over Venezuela and its leader, Maduro.
In your view, do you think that there is
a feasible scenario where this could be
a very swift and total Chinese victory
of Taiwan? M
>> so I do think we have to worry about
what I would call a decapitation strike
which is essentially what the United
States did with Venezuela. Um I I will
admit even I was surprised at how
proficient the US was in carrying out
that operation. I doubt that the Chinese
could do anything similar. But the
scenario that a lot of us have worried
about is whether they could do let's say
missile strikes uh with very little
warning against the Taiwanese
presidential compound. Um is that
possible? Perhaps. Uh, I think it's
unlikely and it wouldn't necessarily
give them control over the island, but
in the aftermath of the Venezuela
operation, I think both Taiwan and China
are probably looking much more seriously
at decapitation strikes and uh probably
preparing uh either to threaten to use
them or to defend against them. And so
this is something that I would think the
Taiwan military is going to be looking
at very seriously and trying to think
about probably bolstering some of the
defenses around the president
presidential office and some of the key
defense ministry compounds.
>> So Zach, the
what we've laid out the the potential
consequences in in both cases. What's
the what's the conclusion? Is the is the
undertaking worth undertaking?
>> Well, my view has always been that
actually Xiinping is relatively
riskaverse when it comes to these kinds
of major decisions. And so I think this
just adds fuel to that argument that the
cost of this sort of operation would be
so high that it would be a pretty huge
risk and unlikely to be successful and
therefore it's not something that he
should do unless he feels that he's
absolutely boxed in. And I don't see
Linga, I don't see Donald Trump boxing
Xi Jinping in in the next couple of
years. And so that makes me somewhat
more confident that although I think
we're going to have a very difficult
period between now and let's say 2028
when there are elections in Taiwan,
that I think we can hopefully maintain
deterrence. And so the the big takeaway
for me is just about how huge these
costs are in very different areas and
how difficult they would be for Beijing
to manage. And so I I think that is a
cautionary tale for Chinese leaders when
they're thinking about potentially
taking military actions against Taiwan.
>> Zach, thank you so much for coming on
and bringing us your report. Zach,
senior fellow at the American Enterprise
Institute and also our thanks to Steve,
our chief correspondent. Of course, if
you are a subscriber and want to rewatch
that interview, you can watch it through
our interactive TV function, TV go. You
can also become part of the conversation
by sending us instant messages,
questions for our guests as well. Check
it out at TVGO. Uh markets looking like
this here right now in the face of
course bond market rattles in Japan the
like. Here we are actually seeing uh
when it comes to Chinese markets, Hang
Sang is doing a bit better than of
course Japan and Korea here right now.
This is Bloomberg.
Heat. Heat.
Ah, 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese
markets hang to that lunch break in just
a moment. And yeah, I think uh
>> we need to catch a break. Well,
>> to say the least, um, when it comes to
the the the rattles and and the shock
that we saw among bond traders yesterday
here, that melt up in yields, something
we really haven't seen since April of
last year, a liberation day. So, seems
like right now things have at least
calmed a bit given some of the calming
words from the finance minister in Japan
while she was speaking to Haz and Davo
saying, "Look, chill out. Nothing to see
here." And as we talked to Esper Cole
about, right, this is just Japan going
back to normal. We haven't seen that or
you know Japanese JB yields of the 10
year he says should not be at 2%. 3 and
a half to 4% might be more of what he
says is actually reason
>> should be the case should be the case
because it's now
>> exiting stackflation it's you know
>> all that.
>> Hence the the widowmaker trade is now a
rain maker right that that trend is is
is long gone. uh bank stocks obviously
we're tracking that given the meltup in
yields and the pull back back down uh
which is fairly almost a mirror image of
where yields go uh over over in Japan.
Uh the rest of the region though might
have a different risk premium being
built in here because apart from
obviously what did get exacerbated by
the meltup in yields in Japan and to
some extent of course the Treasury
market also reacted quite badly to that
yesterday. Uh there's also we're moving
into this big risk event of the US
president and his speech at Davos later
today. In fact, a few minutes ago, we
just showed you this pictures out of the
US where Air Force One of course I
believe just uh took off headed for uh
that that part of the world. So we'll
obviously be on top of that story once
we have more information there and lots
of good conversations are coming up of
course for my team there uh Davos.
Nothing else is happening across these
markets. Mixed the Asia dollar index
which is a reflection of broadly the the
state of currencies Asian FX might have
to do with the outperformance of the
Korean one today.
>> And perhaps what's been lost in some of
the headlines was what we heard from
that briefing yesterday from the finance
uh ministry from China, right?
Announcing a range of incentives to spur
investment and consumption. The Ministry
of Finance says this includes a $72
billion loan guarantee facility for
private companies to buy equipment and
raw materials and upgrade technology.
For more on this, let's bring in our
economist David Chu. He's with us. Uh
your take on the on what we heard that
this announcement.
>> Yes. So actually uh what we can say uh
it is not a surprise because the
government had uh reiterated that they
will uh give more support tomemes.
But uh I what is makes it a surprise is
the timing you know usually it comes uh
around the the NPC the national people's
congress session but now it comes
earlier so I think it is uh it means
that the the government is something
serious or or very you know eager to
give the support to themes
>> yeah things are coming early in fact be
before we talk about the bull run and
what that is doing to sentiment you know
something that also came early in to a
surprise was the structural rate cut,
>> right? And we were obviously very few
people were expecting them to move
specifically on that rate. But what do
you think that is signaling from a
policy perspective?
>> Well, I think it means that for the next
actually this year and the next couple
of years uh supporting the private
sector and the the consumers will be a
center of the policy orientation you
know uh because of all of the things
happening in China. So, uh, yeah, I
think that the signal is clear.
>> Um, there's an interesting report that
you guys came out with, too, about, you
know, obviously we've seen this stellar
run in equities. Um, and that still
seems to be continuing to lift the mood
out there, but but not so much when it
comes to spending. Why are we not seeing
that sort of wealth effect play through
in the real economy? Well, uh when we uh
go back to a year ago, when we talk
about why the government wants to to
raise uh to boost the stock market, one
of the reasons we think we thought it
was that the government want to boost
the sentiment so that to boost the the
consumption and the investment by
domestic companies and household. But
now it seems that yes, the government uh
the the stock market is boomed and the
sentiment in the market is okay. It's
hot. But still we didn't see the boom in
the consumption side. I think one of the
reasons is that the the income from the
stock market does not account a a large
share in uh China China households
income. We saw the data it is uh less
than 10%. So that uh it means that yes
it happened and it helped some of the
the the the household but not a lot.
>> David thank you David Chu there out of
Bloomberg economics here. Uh we'll take
you straight back to the joint uh base
in Andrews of course as the US president
is my mistake. We I thought the Air
Force One had already taken off. He is
still of course yet to board Air Force
One but that is of course the
>> chopper arrived and then now he's about
to step onto the plane. There you go.
>> Yeah. Transit there. giving uh
photographers and reporters a bit of a
nod there on on as he steps into WF and
Davos. And certainly his speech 2:30
p.m. local time is going to be front and
center here. Is he going to use this
platform to ease rather than really
escalate or rather escalate tensions
over Greenland? He is heading to of
course Europe uh their territory here.
We've already seen the response, the
push back from European leaders,
although as you say, you know, they have
been split in terms of what the overall
response is going to be. But there you
go. Stepping on to Air Force One this
evening. This is Bloomberg.
Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China Show. more to chew on on the China
AI story. We are getting just a few
lines from this briefing taking place
out of device industry minister uh Jan
Yun Ming uh talking about how they're
looking to promote highquality AI
developments uh and that the broader aim
and so far again this one has largely
just started I believe so not a lot of
details just yet the China aims for tech
breakthroughs in chips for AI training
specifically so so far that's what we
have just to flag that that is something
to watch of course as we go into the
thick of things not just today but of
course just how this broader AI played.
Keep in mind right we are moving into
the anniversary if you missed if you're
not keeping track of the deepseek moment
from this time.
>> Oh yeah
>> last year right which really changed the
complexion of many things from that
point in time.
>> I can't believe I missed that. Yeah,
just watching from home the
>> the the the craziness but certainly yes
um they are reiterating this once again
right these tech breakthroughs when it
comes to chips that still remain some of
the key sort of leaders uh in this
equity rally of late uh we were hearing
from some sound from Davos as well from
the likes of Google DeepMind and they're
saying that Chinese AI companies have
not been able to innovate beyond the
cutting edge of technology and remain
behind the frontier AI of the leading
western labs the CEO spoke with us at
the World Economic Forum in Davos.
>> It's been hard work, really hard work
getting uh our technology and the models
sort of to back to state-of-the-art. I
think we did that with Gemini 3
especially and Nanaban on our in imaging
software. Um and then I think we've also
sort of adapted really to this new world
of shipping very fast, kind of bringing
a kind of startup energy to what we do.
And
>> do you think people underestimated
Google or got something wrong?
>> Yes, maybe. I'm not sure. Well, I mean,
I think we always had the ingredients,
you know, to to to be at the forefront
of this. Obviously, um, we got the long
history in it. I think, you know, over
the last decade, uh, Google and Deep
Mind between us, we've invented most of
the breakthroughs that the modern AI
industry relies on now. Obviously,
transformers, most famously, but alpha
go, deep reinforcement learning, these
things. Um, and we have these incredible
product surfaces, billions of user
services that are natural fits for AI
actually from search to email to uh to
to Chrome and um, but it's just getting
all of that together uh, and uh,
organized in the right way and I think
we've done that in the last couple of
years and there's still a lot more work
to do, but I think we're starting to see
the fruits of that.
>> A year ago, Deep Sea seemed cataclysmic
for the West. Um, now a year later it's
it's quiet. China seems to have been
quieter. Yes.
>> Has your opinion on competition from
China changed?
>> Not really. Uh, I mean, I didn't think
it was cataclysmic in the first place. I
think it was a massive overreaction in
the West. It was impressive and I think
it shows that uh the Chinese are very
capable that the leading companies um I
think companies like Bite Dance actually
I would say are the most capable. Um,
and they're maybe only 6 months behind.
not one or two years behind the
frontier. So I think that's what DeepS
seek showed. Some of the claims were
overexaggerated about you know the the
amount of compute they used and being so
minimal and so on because they relied on
some western models and also fine-tuning
on the outputs of some of the leading
western models. So it wasn't sort of
denovo and um the other thing I think so
far is not you know yet to be seen is
can China actually uh the Chinese
companies innovate beyond the frontier
themselves.
Yeah, there we go. That was Emily Chang,
of course, uh at Davos with a Google
Deep Mind CEO. Right, let's turn our
attention now to a story we've been uh
tracking very closely. In fact, I would
say not just a couple of days, a couple
of weeks if not months when this all
began, of course. So the this broader
investigation regulatory investigation
into trip.com that was that's of course
the dominant travel platform in China is
exposing really how its pricing policies
are trapping specifically in this case
hotel operators in a discounting spiral.
Now, trip controls about 56% as you can
see on the screens there of the Chinese
online travel markets. And of course,
the folks in the industry, hotels
specifically, have been telling
Bloomberg that they are forced to
constantly cut prices to remain visible
on the platform.
>> Yeah. Joining us now is our senior
global business reporter, Juan Ha. She
has more on this here. So, tell us more
about what the government is
investigating here and and what are they
trying to achieve. Well, the government
issued a very brief statement last week
in which they said they're investigating
Trip.com for abuse of its market
position and monopolistic practices. It
didn't go beyond that. We've now spoken
to hotel chains who operate on the
Trip.com platform known as C-RIP in
China and they've basically outlined,
you know, these practices that they say
that they allege are very abusive to
them and they feel like they're locked
in into exclusivity arrangements into
these constant, you know, cut cutting of
prices that just really leave them with
these paper thin margins. Um, and in
some cases, apparently the price cuts
are unilateral. We spoke to one hotel uh
homeowner, you know, who who who is a
owner of a home stay. So, he's just a
very small single property guy. And he
said last year um Seip constantly cut
his own prices, his own hotel rates, and
he only found out about it when his
customers came in to check in at the at
the hotel. Uh and he said, of course, he
complained, they wouldn't do anything.
He of course has has to absorb all of
that cost. And what really got him angry
was that the commissions that he had to
pay to to uh trip.com was based on the
original price that he had posted and
they were cutting slashes slashing
prices by like as much as 66% in some
cases. So it's really leaving these guys
with these really paper thin margins at
this point and they say they can't
continue like that
>> if if at all there is a margin left in
some cases. Right. So like easier said
than done but why why does he have to
live with it? like he just ditch and go
to another travel website for example
>> that would be easy right that would be
the the easier option I mean as as we
said I mean uh trip.com is the dominant
player they've got 56% of the market the
next biggest player has only 15% of the
market so in this environment where it's
so competitive um with online travel it
really is about hits and clicks and and
bookings are all happening online so
they can't really go anywhere else for
the even the top tier uh merchants they
say that you know they're locked into
these exclusivity arrangements where
they can't list their hotels on any
other website. And if they do, uh, then
they're they're, you know, their search
rankings im immediately plummet. Uh,
they're not seen to to to people who
search for trips. Um, and, you know, at
the end of the day, they feel like they
have they're stuck on on on these
websites. And right now, these hotel
chains are operating in such a very
competitive environment. I mean, hotel
supply has tripled in some of these
regions and so it's everybody's it's
feels like it's a race to the bottom.
>> Yeah. And it sounds like we're seeing
something similar in the food delivery
space, right? I mean, we have seen
anti-probe antirust probes and and big
fines in some of these tech companies
like Alibaba, like Mtoan. Do you see
similarities similarities of what what's
happening with TRIP to to what we're
seeing in the food delivery space?
>> That's such a good point. Uh we did see
Alibaba get a record fine for its
monopolistic practices. We don't know
exactly what the market regulator is
investigating when it comes to trip.com
because they haven't said specifically,
but from talking to hotel hotel chains,
there are definite echoes of similar
practices um that Alibaba and Mittoan
engaged in that the market regulator was
very concerned about um that that
perhaps may be at play here.
>> Have we heard from the company at all?
Have they
>> The company said that they are
cooperating with cooperation. They are
cooperating with the with investigation
but when we asked them specifically
about the merchants complaints they
declined to comment since it is an
ongoing investigation at this point.
Okay, Juan so much there uh on really
what we've been seeing around this
regulatory scrutiny which seems like
that has kind of emerged a bit here
whether it's with trip uh we talked
about the food delivery space even ping
do um yeah
>> the last couple days and the stock
really continues to be a downdrift here
um in terms of what Asian markets are
doing as we go to a break here this is
what we're seeing across of course risk
assets and hang as well the CSI 300
looking a bit better as we say from the
rest of the world Singapore as well as
Cosby seeing some declines here. This is
Wilbur.
On Arctic's sovereignty, we stand firmly
with Greenland and Denmark and fully
support their unique right to determine
Greenland's future.
Canada strongly opposes tariffs over
Greenland and calls for focused talks to
achieve our shared objectives of
security and prosperity in the Arctic.
Without collective governance,
cooperation gives way to relentless
competition. Competition from the United
States of America through trade
agreements that undermine our export
interests, demand maximum concession
concessions, and openly aim to weaken
and subordinate Europe.
combined with an endless accumulation of
new tariffs that are fundamentally
unacceptable. Even more so when they are
used as leverage against territorial
sovereignty.
>> I doubt it. Look, they want to they need
that agreement very badly with us. They
really do. They they fought very hard to
get it. So, I doubt that, but we'll see
what happens. We have a lot of meetings
scheduled on Greenland.
Yeah, just a few hours away from that
Trump speech in Davos as well where
you're hearing him from just now saying
he's confident that the EU will stick by
their trade deal even if he imposes new
tariffs in his quest to take control of
Greenland as France blasts his strategy.
Um that brings to a big kind of
longerterm implications when it comes to
markets, right? I mean obviously when
you have transatlantic relations
escalating here, what does that mean for
European investors that that have, you
know, such big holders of holdings of
when it comes to US assets, right?
They're the largest in terms of uh
foreign uh num economies that actually
hold
>> US treasuries
>> treasuries and bonds, right? And they're
greater when it comes to even Japan and
China combined. So what are they going
to do about that? Is there really some
sort of weaponization of capital that
could happen here? And we as we talked
about that that Danish pension fund,
>> you know, they said, you know, they
might actually have inklings of not, you
know, at least exiting out of their
position when it comes to US treasuries
too. That was Anders Shelda the chief
investment officer there specifically
for that pension fund said that the US
is basically not a good credit and
long-term play as far as US government
finances are not sustainable. So that is
a seems a credit decision but yeah I
mean that's a very that's a difficult
situation to be in right because you're
so much skin in the if you think about
it too right this time last year
>> when it was the US and China part of the
conversation right we were talking about
how what would China weaponize its
holdings of US treasuries and now you
just change the name you're you keep one
the same but it's the Europeans and you
know there's a reason why they are the
biggest now right because China has
stepped back from the US Treasury market
over the last few years or so
>> and and always the question is would
they be also shooting themselves in the
foot by doing so. I think the same case
goes for Europe as well in this case and
I guess you heard a little bit about
that from Sergio Monty the UBS CEO
saying that Europeans tempted to
weaponize their holdings of US
government debt are making a dangerous
bet that risks backfiring. Speaking to
Bloomberg, Marty said diversifying away
from the US is impossible because it
remains the strongest economy in the
world.
diversifying away from America is
impossible. I think that in in any major
asset allocation, one could probably
think about having an overweight or
underweight, but diversifying away from
the US and also from the dollar is a
quite dangerous bet. You know, things
can change rapidly and uh and uh US is
is the strongest economy in the world.
the one who has the highest level of
innovation. Right now is a little bit
bumpy, but I would say that uh I
wouldn't really bet against the US.
>> There seems to be a difference between
how the politicians and the policy
makers talk about America right now and
the backdrop for international relations
and how a business person thinks of
America, the economy and the
opportunity. I've mentioned this stat a
number of times already today about the
survey that PWC put out. They surveyed
four and a half thousand CEOs and the
top destination for capital for
investment America and it was up on last
year as a bank boss right now a CEO
who's thinking about expanding around
the world why is US still top of mind
for you? Well, because uh from our
central point of view, we we see two big
levers. First of all, uh wealth
creation, GDP growth, innovations and
also uh more idiosyncratic to UBS is
that we see potential for us to become
uh more present, increase our market
share. So that's one place. On the other
end, we are also very big in in Asia. I
mean, we manage 1 trillion of assets
there. We are growing very fast. The
economy is growing. uh you know half of
the population in the world is living
there and is creating a new wealth.
>> There there you go the UBS boss Sergio
Monty speaking with John Pharaoh of
course in Davos. Uh just some other big
political headlines we are tracking at
this point. Uh let's get started and
have a look at the US justice
department. Bloomberg has been told that
it has subpoenaed uh the Minnesota
governor Tim Waltz and other state
officials to investigate whether they
impeded federal immigration operations.
Meanwhile, President Trump has said that
uh ICE agents sometimes make mistakes
even as he broadly defended his migrant
crackdown. The president's comments came
as polls suggest declining public
support for his hardline approach.
>> They're going to make mistakes
sometimes. ISIS is going to be too rough
with somebody or you know they're
dealing with rough people. Are they
going to make a mistake? Sometimes it
can happen. We feel
now New Zealand Prime Minister
Christopher Luxon has called uh a
national election for November 7. Uh he
says that the early call is about giving
voters certainty as he aims to win a
second term with a promise of faster
economic growth. Now, Luxton's national
party has slipped in recent opinion
polls to be neck andneck with the Labor
opposition.
>> The recovery is up and running in a way,
and we think there's a marvelous
opportunity for us to to help this
country realize its potential. We're
going to demonstrate more of that
through the year. There's a lot more
activity and job uh vacancies uh being
being um promoted. So, the the last
thing for sure is that we want to see
unemployment coming down. expect.
>> In terms of movers here today, we're
watching gold stocks very closely and
continues to be an up arrow story when
it comes to some of the miners here
today. So, the likes of Shandong Gold up
some 4%. Uh gold, you know, prices
continue to kind of edge higher here in
the face of all these geopolitical
concerns and the like. We flip the
boards and we watch what the leisure
wear, you know, that sports makers are
doing in China. Ant seems to have led to
a bit more concern about what the
outlook looks like, right? You take a
look at fourth quarter retail sales. Uh
they did report some single low
singledigit decline uh when it comes to
retail sales. The stock right now is at
the lowest we've seen in about 8 to nine
months there. So we're down about 6%
that's sending some of these other
apparel makers lower leaning also is
down by 3% as well. Wonka also
>> news there.
>> Yeah. So Vanco is also let's let's bring
it up please if we can and maybe just
also a note here and ant that that was a
filing to the exchange of course
yesterday. Now as far as bank is
concerned, good news. You look at H&
shares also reacting quite positively.
Approval here for this revised plan to
extend um I guess in some ways a
positive development to kicking the can
down the road there. 2% up on both 2 to
3% rather to be more specific on the
Asia market specifically. Uh Hing index
we are just entering the last hour of
the morning session and the benchmark is
looking like this. We've been bobbing
between uh in a very very tight range.
dollar ch the bottom of your screens. A
quarter 1% to the downsides. That's it
from us here today. We'll see you all
tomorrow.